Fusion is how we merge together data from
different sensors in order to gain a comprehensive understanding of the environment.
In particular, sensor fusion relies on the notion of uncertainty.
We can't ever be completely certain about the state of any object in our environment.
However, we can use mathematical filters to fuse together data from different types of
sensors in order to reduce our uncertainty and increase the accuracy of our estimates.
Most filters rely on a prediction update cycle in which we first predict or estimate
the position of different objects in our environment and then we
update those predictions using actual sensor measurements.
We continue this cycle forever,
predicting and then updating,
predicting and the updating in order to gain in
increasingly accurate picture of our surrounding environment.
Some of the factors to consider when selecting
a filter for sensor fusion include whether that
filter operates in continuous or discrete measurement space
and how that filter handles linearity.
Sensors often provide us data in continuous form,
but it can often be easier for filters to process data in discrete form.
That conversion from continuous measurements to discrete measurements
can often introduce its own type of uncertainty and imprecision.
Linearity means whether an object is
moving in a straight line or whether it's moving in a non-linear fashion.
Kalman filters, which will study in this program,
operate effectively on vehicles that are moving in a straight line,
but encounter problems when vehicles begin to exhibit non-linear curved motion.
No type of filter is perfect,
but by choosing a good filter and implementing it correctly,
we can reduce the amount of uncertainty in our sensor measurements
and gain a more complete understanding of our surrounding environment.